Did you have any remorse at all?
Did you feel that you were taking something valuable from somebody else?
Yeah, I felt if there were somebody else, I did have quite a bit of remorse.
I felt if there was somebody else just like me, who maybe would have been unknown, but yet would have had the insight into finding these materials, they wouldn't be there for them.
And I felt I had to get these
back or to be made accessible to other people in some way, you know, so then. How would you have done that in your own mind, in other words? Well I was going to bestow the knowledge to as many people as I can or have people in see him while I was alive and I was gonna. How are you gonna do that? Well when I died, I was going to leave it my will, a confession. Really? And a trust to do this. That's why I say I'm sort of living my death you know. I thought of this for hours and hours and days.
How did you enjoy your collection?
I saw some photos in the file of the collection.
Mostly bringing people up to see it, like I'm showing you my house or someone.
You're going to see the skeleton of my life, you know.
The empty shell.
When's the last time you were down here?
A week ago.
This is probably going to be the last time I'm going to be able to come here, because I'm gone for an extended period of time.
The house will probably, Mr. Hall will die.
I'll call in the disrepair.
Maybe get torn down for a parking lot, the ever classic.
Now, I understand your father's coming in.
Today, yeah.
Testifying.
Did he know about your collecting?
Well, he knew, yeah, I knew about the collecting.
He thinks it's an obsession, but no, he didn't know about any of the other stuff.
Any of the means, shall we say.
Of course, I spent an awful lot of money on the majority of the stuff I bought.
Yeah, I think that's a point that hasn't come out, you know, and I'd like to make that.
I would like to ask you that.
They say they recovered in excess of 20,000 books and magazines.
But they haven't distinguished between how many were purchased legitimately by yourself and those obtained otherwise.
And as you know, in the antiquarian market, there's a lot of ex-library stuff out there.
Ex-librous stuff.
Ex-librous, yeah.
A lot of phones.
That's right.
So give me an idea.
Give me an idea of the numbers.
Well go in any bookstore.
Well, it depends.
I mean, in your collection, the numbers that were purchased would fit.
Acquired.
You know, since these moves out of Elliott Avenue, I haven't gotten my whole collection out.
And most of the stuff that, the earlier stuff that I acquired, hadn't been unpacked yet.
Now, did they?
Oh, I'd say easily 50% or even more.
How much would you say you spent?
Over the years, I'm book collecting.
Did you get a rough idea?
$100,000.
I bought and bought.
It adds up, you know, $20 here, $30 there.
Did you ever go hungry?
Would you choose to have a book or a meal?
Oh, I'd have read every book.
Any day of the year.
With the record, Joe, he's smiling broadly at that question.